PowerShell File Transfers
Continuing with Alice and Bob,
we’ll transfer the Windows version of
wget from Alice to Bob using PowerShell.
We will transfer the file over HTTP
so we’ll quickly copy
wget.exe to our webroot
and start our Apache webserver.
Because of the power and
flexibility of PowerShell,
transferring a file is not as straight-
forward as it would be with Netcat
or even with socat,
making these first few commands
a bit confusing at first glance.
We’ll execute the command then
break down the components.
We can see that the command executed,
the file was transferred and
it executes without incident.
Let’s break down the PowerShell
command that made this happen.
First, we used the -c option.
This will execute the supplied command
(wrapped in double-quotes)
as if it were typed at the
PowerShell prompt.
The command we executed
contains several components.
The “new-object” cmdlet
lets us instantiate either a
.Net Framework or a COM object.
In this case we’re creating an
instance of the WebClient class,
which is defined and implemented
in the System.Web namespace.
The WebClient class contains a
public method called DownloadFile.
This method requires our
two key parameters:
a source location (in the form of a URI)…
…and a target location where the
retrieved data will be stored.
With the wget.exe executable
downloaded on Bob’s computer,
he can use it as another tool
to download additional files
or continue using PowerShell
for this purpose.